feat: add a second article about the backend architecture (#359)
BedrockStreaming/tech.bedrockstreaming.com: _posts/2022-08-12-backend-fallbacks.md

---
layout: post
title: "Handling dependencies failures in an API gateway"
description: "How are we handling downtime from the API we are calling, and what can we do about it?"
author: v_claras
tags: [backend, php, api, api-gateway, back-for-front, resiliency]
comments: true
color: rgb(255,128,0)
language: en
---

> Welcome to the second article in our series about the backend architecture and its api gateway.

Reviewer: Cette phrase, seule, est affichée sur la page d'index ; c'est un peu bref et il manque quelque chose qui dise un peu plus de quoi ça parle pour "faire envie", je pense.

Author: Je vois bien le problème, mais j'ai pas trop d'idée de comment faire pour pas sacrifier le début de l'article. Sinon je colle toutes les phrases de l'intro, et ça fait un gros paragraphe :/

Reviewer 2: Peut-être reprendre la phrase de description et enchaîner :shrug: 
```
How are we handling downtime from the API we are calling, and what can we do about it?

Welcome to our second article about the backend architecture and its api gateway.
In [the first part](/2022/06/10/backend-bff-intro.html), we talked about the BFF and all services it depends on.
Today we're going to take a look at what to do when one of them (or many), fails to respond.
```

Author: That nearly a copy of the title then :sweat_smile:

Reviewer: Un résumé un peu bref ?

"Après l'article de la semaine sur le principe de BFF, aujourd'hui, nous parlons de comment ce projet, d'un point de vue 'métier', sait survivre en cas de défaillance d'une API qu'il appelle"

> In the first part, we talked about the BFF and all services it depends on.

Reviewer 3: We may need to link BFF acronym in this article to the chapter of the previous one.
It could ease the onboarding of readers that directly come to this article 💡

Reviewer: "the first part" => mettre un lien

Author: Yes, there already was one comment about this, will do :bow:

Today we're going to take a look at what to do when one of them (or many), fails to respond.

## Service dependencies

As seen previously [(1)](#notes), the BFF uses multiple data sources and services to create a full layout.

Those services are used to gather the contents to be displayed in the application:

> * getting user personalisation data;

Author: It's a mistake :D
Should be `;` everywhere, and `.` on the last line!

* advertising and analytics configuration:
* asking if the user has some authorizations.

> If we don't want our BFF to become one giant SPOF [(2)](#notes), we need to be resilient to the death of those dependencies, any of them, at any time!

Author: Tout à fait, j'ajoute une note à ce propos. Je vais en parler dans le prochain épisode ;)

You must keep in mind that **our top priority is to always be able to answer something readable** to the frontend applications.

## DDD

First thing first, we are using a DDD [(3)](#notes) approach for our modeling.

> This means that we are focusing on the business, as described by our Product Owner. We try not to worry about the various implementation of our backend's friends and their different services.

Reviewer: "we are focusing" ça veut dire "à l'instant présent, nous sommes en train de nous concentrer…"
est-ce que tu ne veux pas un présent simple "we focus", qui a un sens de "généralité toujours vraie" ?

Author: C'est une généralité, je change :+1:

A picture is always easier to understand.

![asking for a layout to the domain means asking a interface for](/images/posts/2022-08-12-backend-fallbacks/ddd-page-min.png)

Above, we can see that when a user ask for a layout A, we are looking to resolve who is `A`.
From the domain point of view, the page collection is only an interface. 

In the picture below, we see the implementation of the page collection. It's the middle layer who knows about the different data source, and chose which one to look on for the page.

![page collection implementation chose the correct data source](/images/posts/2022-08-12-backend-fallbacks/ddd-page-full.png)

> There are multiple great reads about DDD, and this is not the focus of our article, so let's move on. How does this help us?

Author: I'm gonna trust you on the rude part :sweat_smile:

## Handling failures

Failures handling, is done by the middle layer seen in the previous example.

> Its goal is to catch any error [(4)](#notes), and convert them to something expected and defined by the interface.

Reviewer: Je vois que tu construits tes notes de bas de page "à la main", avec un lien et tout. Et que toutes les notes pointent vers la même ancre.
Jekyll n'a pas une fonctionnalité "note de bas de page" mieux foutue que ça ?

> Its goal is to catch any error [(4)](#notes), and convert them to something expected and defined by the interface.

Author: Pas à ma connaissance ^^'

That said, it's not its responsibility to know what are the expected answer. To do that, we use the domain.

> Let see with a small code sample.

Reviewer: "Let's see", non ?
Pour "Let us see", peut-être.

_Note: The following example is not a real use-case, but it's representative and simple enough to illustrate how it works._

> In the code below, we see a class that represent the subscribing status of a user, which has two properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the code below, we see a class that represents the subscribing status of a user, which has two properties:
```

* `hasAccess` controls whether the user can read protected contents;
* `isSubscribed` is used in analytics, and to show subscription pages.

```php
<?php
final class SubscribeStatus
{
    private function __construct(
        public readonly bool $hasAccess,
        public readonly bool $isSubscribed,
    ) {
    }

    public static function createAnonymous(): self
    {
        return new self(false, false);
    }

    public static function createSubscribed(): self
    {
        return new self(true, true);
    }
}
```

> To create such object, we use either one of the two static functions, depending on the status we get from the API handling subscriptions statuses.

Author: ( ça me semble bizarre :thinking: )

> To create such object, we use either one of the two static functions, depending on the status we get from the API handling subscriptions statuses.

Author: It seel weird to me `such an object` but you're the second to suggest it so here it is! :D

This is done in the middle layer, but the business is kept in the domain.

To handle the failure, we add a new named constructor, dedicated to this specific case.

```
    public static function createUnknown(): self
    {
        return new self(true, false);
    }
```

> When an error happens, and we can't retrieve the user subscription status, we now have a fallback option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an error happens and we can't retrieve the user subscription status, we now have a fallback option:
```

Reviewer: Dans la forme : c'est marrant d'avoir "une option", mais deux points dans une bullet-list

Author: J'ai changé la forme ;)

* the user will be able to access any content, it's better to let an anonymous user access a content it should not, that blocking a paying customer;

> * the user will still be reported as not subscribed and will be incentive to see the offers.

Reviewer: "will be X", il faut une forme "-ed" je dirais.
"incentived", si ça se dit?

Author: Non, ça n'existe pas, j'ai changé la phrase pour contourner le problème ;)

Most of the time, the answer is even simpler than this one.

Another example would be user's viewing statuses. If we can't retrieve them, we don't display any progress bar.

> The user won't be able to tell if it has seen a content, but it will still be able to navigate the application.

Reviewer: "it" => non, pas "it". "It", c'est pour les objets. À la limite les animaux.
Tu veux plutôt "he" ou "she", ici.
Ou, si tu ne veux pas genrer, le pluriel neutre "they" (et tu as peut-être des accords à retoucher, dans ce cas).

Author: They c'est bien :)

## Infrastructure solution, the stale cache

> In some case, the above solution does not work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, the above solution does not work.
```

"does not" -> je mettrais bien du "doesn't", au moins quelques fois, ça me semble plus "naturel", même si moins "soutenu"

> Contents, for example, cannot be created by default. If we don't know about a video or a program, we cannot guess what it is.

Reviewer: "created by default", pas sûr de comprendre.
"Contents information, for example, can't be replaced by default values", peut-être?

Luckily, we can rely on the stale cache.

> Stale cache is an old cache entry which is expired. When the cache find such entry, it usually ignores it and ask for a new version of the response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stale cache is an old cache entry which is expired. When the cache finds such entry, it usually ignores it and asks for a new version of the response.
```

est-ce le cache qui "trouve" et "demande"?

Author: Et bah ça dépends des caches, et des implémentations je suppose. En général non c'est le middleware de cache qui le fait. Mais est-ce qu'il faut préciser autant au risque de nuir à la compréhension ? :thinking:

Reviewer: Oui, ça dépend des implémentations (cache aside vs read-through, je crois).
Si ça te va de ne pas préciser, ça me va :+1:

In case of failure, we can use the available staled version.

![following first example, when the http fails to answer, we use the stale cached response](/images/posts/2022-08-12-backend-fallbacks/stale-cache-usage.png)

> _The limitation here is that for an entry to have a staled version, it must have been cached at least once first._

Reviewer: L'alternative est de ne pas faire du cache "à la volée", mais du cache "en avance"… (pas facile, certes)

Author: On a des plans pour ça, quand on aura réussi à la faire j'en parlerai. Puis tu sera mentionné par ce que c'était une vieille idée à toi :p

> _The limitation here is that for an entry to have a staled version, it must have been cached at least once first._

Reviewer 4: **Nitpick** Probably use simpler phrase construction?

```suggestion
_The limitation is that a page must have been cached at least once before, in order to have a staled version._
```

When there is no stale cache, we don't display the content [(5)](#notes).

So far, we are only using it with http implementation:

> * called API must answers with `max-stale` cache directive (see [the mdn](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control#cache_directives) for more on this subject;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* called API must answers with `max-stale` cache directive (see [the mdn](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control#cache_directives));
```

> * called API must answers with `max-stale` cache directive (see [the mdn](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control#cache_directives) for more on this subject;

Reviewer 4: **Nitpick** Double parenthesis does not work.
```suggestion
* called API must answers with `max-stale` cache directive. See [the mdn](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control#cache_directives) for more on this subject;
```

* on the client side, we are using the [`Kevinrob/guzzle-cache-middleware`](https://github.com/Kevinrob/guzzle-cache-middleware) to do the job.

> We plan to expand its usage to other kind of cached entries, such as manually saved data, or database queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We plan to expand its usage to other kinds of cached entries, such as manually saved data and database queries.
```

## Conclusion

> In today's post, we have seen how we handle the loss of our tododo by anticipating the failures and prepare default acceptable behaviours. 

Reviewer 3: `tododo` ?

Author: Forgot about this one :rofl:

> In today's post, we have seen how we handle the loss of our tododo by anticipating the failures and prepare default acceptable behaviours. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In today's post, we have seen how we handle the loss of our tododo by anticipating the failures and preparing default acceptable behaviours. 
```

---
layout: post
title: "Handling dependencies failures in an API gateway"
description: "How are we handling downtime from the API we are calling, and what can we do about it?"
author: v_claras
tags: [backend, php, api, api-gateway, back-for-front, resiliency]
comments: true
color: rgb(255,128,0)
language: en
---

Welcome to the second article in our series about the backend architecture and its api gateway.

> In the first part we talked about the BFF, and all it's dependencies.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In the first part, we talked about the BFF and all services that it depends on.
```

> Today we're going to take a look at what to do when one of them (or many), fails to answer.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Today we're going to take a look at what to do when one of them (or many), fails to respond.
```

> ## Dependencies

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Service dependencies
```

> As seen previously [(1)](#Notes), the BFF uses multiple data sources to create a full layout.

Author: It's working fine, but I guess that's because my browser convert the upper-case

> As seen previously [(1)](#Notes), the BFF uses multiple data sources to create a full layout.

Author: There is both, and a data source is only a type of service, I'm changing for service ;)

> Those dependencies are used to gather the contents to be displayed in the application :

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Those services are used to gather the contents to be displayed in the application :
```

* getting user personalisation data,
* advertising and analytics configuration,
* or asking if the user has some authorizations.

> If we don't want our BFF to become one giant SPOF [(2)](#Notes), we need to be resilient to the death of those dependency; any of them; at any time!

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If we don't want our BFF to become one giant SPOF [(2)](#Notes), we need to be resilient to the death of those dependencies; any of them; at any time!
```

*You must keep in mind that our top priority is to always be able to answer something readable to the frontend applications.*

## DDD

First thing first, we are using a DDD [(3)](#Notes) approach for our modeling.

> This means that we are focusing on the business, as described by our Product Owner. We try to not worry about the various implementation of our backend's friends and their different services.

Author: So many comments where I'm like: I know this, why did I wrote it that way, wtf?! :D

A picture is always easier to understand.

![asking for a layout to the domain means asking a interface for](/images/posts/2022-08-12-backend-fallbacks/ddd-page-min.png)

Above, we can see that when a user ask for a layout A, we are looking at resolving who is `A`.
From the domain point of view, the page collection is only an interface. 

> In the picture below we see that implementation of the page collection. It's middle layer who knows about the different data source, and chose which one to look on for the page.

Author: Yes it is. WYT about the following:
```suggestion
In the picture below, we see the "Page collection implem (Infra)". It's a layer implementing the interface defined in the domain, and in front of the concrete clients to call the services behind. It's its responsibility to chose which service to look on for the page.
```

> In the picture below we see that implementation of the page collection. It's middle layer who knows about the different data source, and chose which one to look on for the page.

Reviewer 2: Top :ok_hand:, now the mention of _"Page collection implem (Infra)"_ make a link between the image and the text. It's easier to follow.

![page collection implementation chose the correct data source](/images/posts/2022-08-12-backend-fallbacks/ddd-page-full.png)

There are multiple great reads about DDD, and this is not the focus of our article, so let's move on. How does this help us?

## Handling failures

Failures handling, is done by the middle layer seen in the previous example.
Its goal is to catch any error [(4)](#Notes), and convert them to something expected and defined by the interface.

That said, it's not its responsibility to know what are the expected answer. To do that, we use the domain.
Let see with a small code sample.

_Note: The following example is not a real use-case, but it's representative and simple enough to illustrate how it works._

In the code below, we see a class that represent the subscribing status of a user.

> It has two properties:

Author: Do we need to save lines? :p

* The first one, `hasAccess`, controls whether the user can read protected contents,
* while the second, `isSubscribed`, is used in analytics, and to show subscription pages.

> ```

Reviewer 6: maybe you can find a codebloc that handles colors for PHP ?

    ) {
    }

    public static function createAnonymous(): self
    {
        return new self(false, false);
    }

    public static function createSubscribed(): self
    {
        return new self(true, true);
    }
}
```

To create such object, we use either one of the two static functions, depending on the status we get from the API handling subscriptions statuses.
This is done in the middle layer, but the business is kept in the domain.

To handle the failure, we add a new named constructor, dedicated to this specific case.

```
    public static function createUnknown(): self
    {
        return new self(true, false);
    }
```

When an error happens, and we can't retrieve the user subscription status, we now have a default option.
* The user will be able to access any content. It's better to let an anonymous user access a content it should not, that blocking a paying customer.
* The user will still be reported as not subscribed and will be incentive to see the offers.

Most of the time, the answer is even simpler than this one.

Another example would be user's viewing statuses. If we can't retrieve them, we don't display any progress bar.

> The user won't be able to tell if it has seen a content, but il will still be able to navigate the application.

Reviewer 2: :gb: Typo?
```suggestion
The user won't be able to tell if it has seen a content, but it will still be able to navigate the application.
```

## Infrastructure solution, the stale cache

In some case, the above solution does not work.
Contents, for example, cannot be created by default. If we don't know about a video or a program, we cannot guess what it is.

> Luckily, we can relieve on the stale cache.

Reviewer 2: :rotating_light::gb: _relieve_ is more used to describe a release of a stress _(:fr: "soulager" in french)_. In this case, I think _rely_ is better as it's means more _we can count on_ _(:fr: "on peut compter sur" in french)_.  
```suggestion
Luckily, we can rely on the stale cache.
```

Author: I knew it, wtf was I thinking at this moment?! ^^'

Stale cache is an old cache entry which is expired. When the cache find such entry, it usually ignores it and ask for a new version of the response.
In case of failure, we can use the available staled version.

> ![following first example, when the http fails to answer, we use the stale cached response](/images/posts/2022-08-12-backend-fallbacks/stale-cache-usage.png)

Reviewer 6: 1. you should add a :x: or a visual effect that the connection between "Another API" and "HTTP API" doesn't work, it's not that clear with only the death symbol IMHO
2. You should also add a dotted line between "Another content API" going back to the requester on the left, so that we understand the request has been answered even with stale cache.

Author: 1. There is already a visual effect, it's a pipe, not an arrow at the end :joy: But, yes, it's not explicit enough. I changed the color of the "not-an-arrow" on the right to red, is it good?
2. Good idea, will do \o/

> _The limitation here, is that for an entry to have a staled version, it must have been cached at least once first._

Reviewer 2: :art: Maybe a new line can be put between this italic sentence and the rest.

> When the is no stale cache, we don't display the content [(5)](#Notes)

Reviewer 2: :art:
```suggestion
When the is no stale cache, we don't display the content [(5)](#Notes).
```

> When the is no stale cache, we don't display the content [(5)](#Notes)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
When there is no stale cache, we don't display the content [(5)](#Notes)
```

> So far, we are only using it with http implementation:
> * Called API must answers with `max-stale` cache directive. See [the mdn](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control#cache_directives) for more on this subject.
> * On the client side, we are using the [`Kevinrob/guzzle-cache-middleware`](https://github.com/Kevinrob/guzzle-cache-middleware) to do the job.

Reviewer 2: :art: For consistency of enumeration:
```suggestion
So far, we are only using it with http implementation:
* called API must answers with `max-stale` cache directive (see [the mdn](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control#cache_directives) for more on this subject) ;
* on the client side, we are using the [`Kevinrob/guzzle-cache-middleware`](https://github.com/Kevinrob/guzzle-cache-middleware) to do the job.
```

We plan to expand its usage to other kind of cached entries, such as manually saved data, or database queries.

## Conclusion

In today's post, we have seen how we handle the loss of our data sources by anticipating the failures and prepare default acceptable behaviours. 

> Next time, we will see how we can spare some traffic on those dependencies when they're struggling with traffic.

Reviewer 2: :thought_balloon: We spare them only when they're struggling with traffic, or when they're struggling generally?
```suggestion
Next time, we will see how we can spare some traffic on those dependencies when they're struggling.
```

Author: Struggling in general, so I won't change this one :p

## Notes
1. We explained what's the BFF and a Layout in the first post, see below for the links of all articles in the series.
2. SPOF, as [single point of failure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_point_of_failure) since all frontend applications have to rely on the BFF, I cannot resist linking this excellent [xkcd](https://xkcd.com/2347/).
3. DDD, as domain driven design, you can read more about it on [Martin FOWLER's website](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/DomainDrivenDesign.html).

> 4. Throwing errors is still allowed, but restricted to domain exceptions, and must be listed in the interface.

Reviewer 2: :question: I don't understand _"listed in the interface"_, do you mean that only specific domain exceptions are allowed to stop the request handling process?

Author: What I mean is that you can still throw exception, but it should be known exception listed in the domain. Infra exception should not bubble out of their implementation.

```
namespace Domain;

interface Something
{
     /**
     * @throws Domain\JustException
     */
     public function doItShia(): Motivation;
}
```
How could I make this easier to understand? :thinking:

Reviewer 2: Ok I get it.
Maybe something like _declared_ :shrug: 
```suggestion
4. Throwing errors is still allowed, but restricted to domain exceptions, and must be specified in the method's declaration in the interface (i.e. via a comment).
```
